h1. Aim of the document

The following gives a short example for running the deepzoom service within a load balanced cluster with HaProxy.
Part of the example is a setup for Tomcat to provide content via http2-Protocol. http2 reduces bandwide-requirements 
and data overhead as it re-uses tcp-connections and sends data in a binary format.   

h2. Why HaProxy?

HaProxy is a lightweight loadbalancer supporting the http2-protocol in an end2end manner. Since Apache2 can be configured to provide http2 between Apache2 and Client, there is currently no support for http2 between Tomcat and Apache2. 


h2. Prerequisites

Each Deepzoom-Server
* Maven
* Java SDK, Version 1.7 and higher (openjdk)
* VIPS, Version 7.30 or higher required! 
* Tomcat, Version 9 (first stable http2-support)

HaProxy Loadbalancer
* HaProxy 1.6 or higher

Although Haproxy can run on one of the Deepzoom Servers, it is advised to operate the load balancer on a separate (virtual) machine. 

 
h3. Setup Tomcats for http2

In each server.xml add  

pre.. sudo mkdir /usr/share/tomcat7-dzdata
sudo mkdir /usr/share/tomcat7-dzdata/dzdata
sudo mkdir /usr/share/tomcat7-dzdata/dzdata/temp
sudo mkdir /usr/share/tomcat7-dzdata/dzdata/tilesCache
sudo chown -r tomcat7:tomcat7 /usr/share/tomcat7-dzdata


h3. 2. Create context as dzdata.xml in /etc/tomcat7/Catalina/localhost/

pre.. sudo touch /etc/tomcat7/Catalina/localhost/dzdata.xml
sudo echo '<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--
  Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one or more
  contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file distributed with
  this work for additional information regarding copyright ownership.
  The ASF licenses this file to You under the Apache License, Version 2.0
  (the "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance with
  the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at

      http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

  Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
  distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
  WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
  limitations under the License.
-->
<Context path="/dzdata" 
	docBase="/usr/share/tomcat7-dzdata/dzdata" 
	antiResourceLocking="false" privileged="true" />' >> /etc/tomcat7/Catalina/localhost/dzdata.xml

h3. 3. Change deepzoomer.cfg accordingly

pre.. # config file for the hbz deepzoomer Service based on 
# VIPS
tempDir = temp
resultDir = tilesCache

# Server config
workingDir = /usr/share/tomcat7-dzdata/

# Client config
protocol = http
host = localhost
port = 8080
path = deepzoom
# change wdPath if you want to have your cached data outside webapp dir
wdPath = dzdata
 




  

   
